音频：

audacity:
Audacity is an easy-to-use, multi-track audio editor and recorder for Windows, Mac OS X, GNU/Linux and other operating systems.
Developed by a group of volunteers as open source.--audacityteam.org

dark audacity:
A free sound editor, DarkAudacity is the well known Audacity sound editor now with a darker more modern theme - and a few small tweaks. The audio engine underneath is the same audio engine. The same code powers it. --darkaudacity.com
The main author wants to provide a different version of Audacity® based on the feedback received from users and a personal view. --fosshub.com

foobar2000:
foobar2000 is an advanced freeware audio player for the Windows platform.--foobar2000.org
Main features:Supported audio formats: MP3, MP4, AAC, CD Audio, WMA, Vorbis, Opus, FLAC, WavPack, WAV, AIFF, Musepack, Speex, AU, SND... and more with additional components.
Gapless playback.
Easily customizable user interface layout.
Advanced tagging capabilities.
Support for ripping Audio CDs as well as transcoding all supported audio formats using the Converter component.
Full ReplayGain support.
Customizable keyboard shortcuts.
Open component architecture allowing third-party developers to extend functionality of the player.--foobar2000.org




视频：

openshot:
award-winning open-source video editing software.
an easy to use, quick to learn, and surprisingly powerful video editor.--openshot.org


avidemux:
Avidemux is a free video editor designed for simple cutting, filtering and encoding tasks. It supports many file types, including AVI, DVD compatible MPEG files, MP4 and ASF, using a variety of codecs. Tasks can be automated using projects, job queue and powerful scripting capabilities.
Avidemux is available for Linux, BSD, Mac OS X and Microsoft Windows under the GNU GPL license. The program was written from scratch by Mean, but code from other people and projects has been used as well. Patches, translations and even bug reports are always welcome.--avidemux.org




图片处理：
digicam:
Professional Photo Management with the Power of Open Source.
DigiKam is an advanced open-source digital photo management application that runs on Linux, Windows, and MacOS. The application provides a comprehensive set of tools for importing, managing, editing, and sharing photos and raw files.--digikam.org



photoflow
rawtherapee
imagine

gadgets：
gifcam

for fun：
sweethome3d
meshroom

OS：
rufus

fileediting：
briss
